README.md, before:

***

## README.md

```markdown
# PDF RAG AI Using Gemini API

This project allows you to upload PDFs and ask questions about them using local embeddings and the Gemini API for natural language generation.

---

## Features

- Extract PDF text locally and chunk it  
- Generate embeddings locally with SentenceTransformers (no cost)  
- Use Gemini API to generate answers based on retrieved context  
- Interactive web interface via Streamlit  
- Requires a Gemini API key set in `.env`

---

## Setup

1. Create a `.env` file in the root folder and add your API key:

```
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key_here
```

2. Install dependencies:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

---

## Running the App

Start the Streamlit app with:

```
streamlit run app.py
```

- Upload your PDF using the sidebar  >>
- Click “Index PDF” to process  
- Ask questions about your uploaded documents  
- Receive answers generated by Gemini API

---

## File Structure

```
/project-root/

├── app.py               # Streamlit web UI

├── data_loader.py       # PDF loading and local embeddings

├── simple_rag.py        # Gemini API calls + RAG logic

├── requirements.txt

├── README.md

└── .env                 # Place Gemini API key here (do NOT upload)
```

---

## Notes

- Embeddings are generated locally and cost nothing  
- Gemini API calls require internet connection and API key  
- Keep your `.env` file private and different per environment

---

## Author

Your Name  
GitHub: starlord78275(https://github.com/starlord78275/simple-Rag)
```

***

Commit message:

Update README with project details and objectives
Expanded project description to clarify objectives and source.

README.md, after:

***
```
This project is based on the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) tutorial by Tech With Tim, where he implements a RAG system using the OpenAI API. My objective was to build a similar RAG solution leveraging open-source tools, or at least a setup that does not incur any costs, enabling me to develop and run the system without relying on paid APIs
```
## README.md

```markdown
# PDF RAG AI Using Gemini API

This project allows you to upload PDFs and ask questions about them using local embeddings and the Gemini API for natural language generation.

---

## Features

- Extract PDF text locally and chunk it  
- Generate embeddings locally with SentenceTransformers (no cost)  
- Use Gemini API to generate answers based on retrieved context  
- Interactive web interface via Streamlit  
- Requires a Gemini API key set in `.env`

---

## Setup

1. Create a `.env` file in the root folder and add your API key:

```
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key_here
```

2. Install dependencies:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

---

## Running the App

Start the Streamlit app with:

```
streamlit run app.py
```

- Upload your PDF using the sidebar  >>
- Click “Index PDF” to process  
- Ask questions about your uploaded documents  
- Receive answers generated by Gemini API

---

## File Structure

```
/project-root/

├── app.py               # Streamlit web UI

├── data_loader.py       # PDF loading and local embeddings

├── simple_rag.py        # Gemini API calls + RAG logic

├── requirements.txt

├── README.md

└── .env                 # Place Gemini API key here (do NOT upload)
```

---

## Notes

- Embeddings are generated locally and cost nothing  
- Gemini API calls require internet connection and API key  
- Keep your `.env` file private and different per environment

---

## Author

Your Name  
GitHub: starlord78275(https://github.com/starlord78275/simple-Rag)
```

***
